Interview process (#5)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-interlude: interview-process/how-to-interview.md

* id: 50473b2b-d4fc-4d93-9c45-cb3cad358be7
* title: Sample Question & Clarifying Questions
* points: 1
* topics: Interviewing

##### !question

For the following question, identify a clarifying question.

```
Write a program to check whether a given number is an ugly number.

Ugly numbers are positive numbers whose prime factors only include 2, 3, 5.
```

##### !end-question

##### !answer

/.+/
##### !end-answer

##### !placeholder

##### !end-placeholder

<!-- other optional sections -->
<!-- !hint - !end-hint (markdown, hidden, students click to view) -->
<!-- !rubric - !end-rubric (markdown, instructors can see while scoring a checkpoint) -->
##### !explanation

Some clarifying questions could include:

- Does 1 count?
- Can the prime factors include a combination of 2, 3 and 5?
- Can you define prime factors?

##### !end-explanation

### !end-challenge

<!-- ======================= END CHALLENGE ======================= -->

### Determine Test Input-Output

The next step is to determine sample input into the problem and the resulting output.  This allows the applicant to verify how well they understand the problem and identify how the answer is determined.

> When creating sample input-output look for edge-cases.  Solicit feedback from the interviewer to verify that the sample input and output values are correct and you understand the problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating sample input-output, look for edge-cases.  Solicit feedback from the interviewer to verify that the sample input and output values are correct and that you understand the problem.
```

It can also be quite helpful to ask for **test cases**.  Some interviewers may provide pre-written unit tests for the problem, others may provide useful input-output examples of their own.  Candidates who ask for test cases also demonstrate a knowledge of Test Driven Development.

**Example**:

```
Write a program to check whether a given number is an ugly number.

Ugly numbers are positive numbers whose prime factors only include 2, 3, 5.

Sample #1:
Input:  21
Output: False

Sample #2
Input: 1
Output: True
```

### Describe The Approach

After developing sample input and output values, being developing a solution.  Describe the approach to the interviewer and write down the steps.  Pseudocode can be quite helpful.  Get feedback from the interviewer and listen to any questions they have.  The interviewer will often ask questions to help identify bugs in the approach or unforseen edge-cases.

**Example**

```
We will take in the sample number `num`

loop until num mod 2 is not 0
  - num = num mod 2

loop until num mod 3 is not 0
  - num = num mod 3

loop until num mod 5 is not 0
  - num = num mod 5

if num is 1 return True
Otherwise return False
```

> <!-- available callout types: info, success, warning, danger, secondary  -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### !callout-success

## Pro-Tip Use "We"

> When discussing the problem a candidate should try to engage the interviewer in the process as a collaborator.  Use terms like "we" when talking abou the problem and solution.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When discussing the problem a candidate should try to engage the interviewer in the process as a collaborator.  Use terms like "we" when talking about the problem and the solution.  
```

> In general, an interviewer *wants* the candidate to succeed and by engaging in a collaborative process, you can both become more at-ease and solicit more helpful feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, an interviewer *wants* the candidate to succeed. By engaging in a collaborative process, you can both become more at-ease and solicit more helpful feedback.
```

### !end-callout

### Begin Coding

> Once the candidate has discussed the approach with the interviewer and answered any questions it is time to begin coding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the candidate has discussed the approach with the interviewer and answered any questions, it is time to begin coding.
```

> While coding the solution it is important to remember to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While coding the solution, it is important to remember to:
```

> - Explain each step while coding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Explain each step as you code
```

> - When pausing to think, speak aloud to explain the thought process, interviewers need to understand what the candidate is thinking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When pausing to think, speak out loud about your thought process. Interviewers need to understand what the candidate is thinking.
```

- Pause regularly to test each step using the input-output values from before

Remember **communication is key**.  An interviewer needs to understand the candidate's thinking.

> <!-- available callout types: info, success, warning, danger, secondary  -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### !callout-success

## Pro Tip - Ask for Help

When stuck, there is nothing wrong with a candidate asking for help.  The interviewer could respond with, "no," but often will respond with a useful tip to get the candidate past the sticking point. 

### !end-callout

> <!-- >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> BEGIN CHALLENGE >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> -->
> <!-- Replace everything in square brackets [] and remove brackets  -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```
Sample #1:
Input:  21
Output: False

Sample #2
Input: 1
Output: True
```

```py
def test_one():
    assert ugly_number(1) == True

def test_two():
  assert ugly_number(3) == True

def test_three():
  assert ugly_number(5) == True

def test_four():
  assert ugly_number(22) == False

def test_five():
  assert ugly_number(30) == True

def test_six():
  assert ugly_number(150) == True
```

##### !end-question

##### !placeholder

```py
def ugly_number(num):
  '''
  INPUT: A positive number
  OUTPUT: boolean
  '''
  pass
#   return 1
```

##### !end-placeholder

##### !tests

```py
import unittest
from main import ugly_number

class TestUglyNumber(unittest.TestCase):
  def test_one(self):
    self.assertEqual(ugly_number(1), True)

  def test_two(self):
    self.assertEqual(ugly_number(3), True)

  def test_three(self):
    self.assertEqual(ugly_number(5), True)

  def test_four(self):
    self.assertEqual(ugly_number(22), False)

  def test_five(self):
    self.assertEqual(ugly_number(30), True)

  def test_six(self):
    self.assertEqual(ugly_number(150), True)
  def test_151(self):
      self.assertEqual(ugly_number(151), False)
```

##### !end-tests

> <!-- other optional sections -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

##### !hint

Sample Solution

```python
for divisor in [2, 3, 5]:
    while num % divisor == 0:
        num = num // divisor

return num == 1
```

##### !end-hint

> <!-- !rubric - !end-rubric (markdown, instructors can see while scoring a checkpoint) -->
> <!-- !explanation - !end-explanation (markdown, students can see after answering correctly) -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### !end-challenge

> <!-- ======================= END CHALLENGE ======================= -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Test Your Solution

> When a candidate finishes programming they should test their solution with the sample input and output values and verify that the solution works.  Testing helps verify that no edge-case has been missed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a candidate finishes programming, they should test their solution with the sample input and output values and verify that the solution works.  Testing helps verify that no edge-cases have been missed.
```

### Solution Discussion

> After presenting the solution, the candidate will often be expected to discuss the pros and cons of the solution as written.  Candidates should be prepared to identify the time and space complexity and talk about alternate approaches, if time allows.  Interviews can be stressful and time constrained, so a candidate may not have had time to refactor and create an ideal solution, but they can discuss what next steps they would follow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After presenting the solution, the candidate will often be expected to discuss the pros and cons of the solution as it is written.  Candidates should be prepared to identify the time and space complexity and talk about alternate approaches (if time allows).  

Interviews can be stressful and time constrained, so a candidate may not have had time to refactor and create an ideal solution, but they can discuss what next steps they would follow.
```

> <!-- available callout types: info, success, warning, danger, secondary  -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### !callout-success

## Perfection is **NOT** the Goal

> The goal of a good interviewer is not to see the candidate arrive at a perfect solution, even if one exists.  A perfect solution is nice, but the real goal is to understand what the candidate could bring to the team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of a good interviewer is to understand what the candidate could bring to the team. It is **not** to see if the candidate arrives at a perfect solution, whether or not one might exist. 
```

Interviewers want to know:

- Will this candidate respond to feedback?
- Can this candidate communicate their thoughts in a technical environment?
- Would this candidate be a good team member?
- How well does this candidate solve problems?
- Is this a person who could mesh with our team?

### !end-callout

### Interview Conclusion

> At the conclusion of the interview the candidate should thank the interviewer for their time.  The company will normally follow up later to either move forward or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the conclusion of the interview, the candidate should thank the interviewer for their time.  The company will normally follow up later to either move forward or not.
```
